---
layout: pub
image: /images/ArzuUyar.jpg
category: person
position: postdoc
name: "Arzu Uyar"
email: "uyararzu@msu.edu"
---
**Education:**  
B. Sc. Chemical Engineering, Istanbul University (2004)  
M. Sc. Chemical Engineering, Bogazici University (2008)  
Ph. D. Chemical Engineering, Bogazici University (2014)  

Arzu focused on the analysis of large conformational transitions of biomolecules during her Ph.D. studies at the Bogazici University in the group of Pemra Doruker. The main aim of her studies was to develop computationally fast and efficient hybrid tecnhiques and to apply them to different types of proteins such as hinge-bending, shear, DNA-binding proteins, and enzymes showing local motions. Those techniques can be summarized as:

* ANM-MC: a combination of Elastic Network Model (ENM/ANM) and Monte-Carlo (MC) methods to generate conformational transition pathways between open and closed conformations of biomolecules. For more information, please visit our database involving different type of proteins such as adenylate kinase, GroEL, calmodulin ([http://safir.prc.boun.edu.tr/anmmc/](http://safir.prc.boun.edu.tr/anmmc/)).
* Rg-ANM-MC: a fast hybrid technique for coarse-grained closed structure prediction of hinge-bending type proteins, where radius of gyration (Rg) was used as a constraint during the selection of direction/mode.
 
She also worked on the dynamics of G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) and protein-DNA complexes using molecular dynamics simulations and elastic network model calculations. 

The aim of her recent projects is to understand the biophysics of ligand binding using the WExplore method and pharmacophore-based virtual screening.
