---
layout: pub
image: /images/betagluc.png
link: https://github.com/ADicksonLab/preprints/blob/master/betagluc_csa.pdf
title: "Optimal Allosteric Stabilization Sites Using Contact Stabilization Analysis"
authors: "Dickson A*, Bailey CT and Karanicolas J"
journal: "Submitted"
year: 2016
category: publication
---
Proteins can be destabilized by a number of environmental factors such as temperature, pH
and mutation. The ability to restore function by small molecule stabilizers, or the introduction
of disulde bonds, would be a very powerful tool, but the physical principles that drive this
stabilization are not well understood. The first problem lies is in choosing an appropriate binding
site or disulfide bond location that will best confer stability to the active site and restore function.
Here we present a general framework for predicting which allosteric binding sites correlate with
stability in the active site. Using the Karanicolas-Brooks Go-like model, we examine the dynamics
of the glycosidase enzyme beta-glucuronidase using an Umbrella Sampling method to thoroughly
sample the conformational landscape. Each intramolecular contact is assigned a score termed
a "stabilization factor" that measures its correlation with structural changes in the active site.
This is done for three different scaling strengths for the intramolecular contacts, and we examine
how the calculated stabilization factors depend on the makeup of the ensemble of destabilized
conformations. We further examine a locally destabilized mutant of beta-glucuronidase that has
been characterized experimentally, and show that this brings about local changes in the stabilization
factors. We find that the proximity to the active site is not sufficient to determine which contacts
can confer active site stability.
